# HD44780

This chip is used on the vast majority of LCD displays of different sizes. ATL implements several template classes to work with the LCD display.

Currently the implementation of the necessary delays for controlling the LCD is synchronous - meaning that execution is halted for the duration of the delay. The `HD44780_Profile` class implements a couple of static methods that perform the actual delay. To allow you to customize / optimize these delays for your specific situation you can specify your own version of this timing profile class in the template parameters of the Driver and the Controller classes.

## Driver

There are two driver classes available. The `HD44780_Driver` class works directly on the Arduino board pins while the `HD44780_DriverSerial3Wire` class works with the `Serial3WireOutput` class using shift registers.

These driver classes both assume a 4-bit data transfer for a write-only (R/W is connected to ground) display.

The `HD44780_DriverSerial3Wire` class has a `setDataRegister(BitArrayT)` method that needs to be called before the display is initialized. The `BitArray` that is passed contains the bits for the output pins of the shift registers and is shared among all classes that interface through them.

## Controller

The `HD44780_Controller` class implements the protocol for communicating with the LCD display. It implements the basic functions the display can perform.

The Controller class has an `Initialize` method that needs to be called in the `setup()` stage of the Sketch which puts the LCD through its initialization sequence.

## View

The `HD44780_View` class implements a method for positioning the cursor and writing text. It also implements the method necessary to be an `OutputStream` and can therefor be used with a `TextWriter` class - which makes writing string to the display very easy.

The current Cursor position is maintained by the class and kept in-sync during any of the operations that can be performed on the LCD display.

## ViewPort

The `HD44780_ViewPort` class is a very slim layer on top of the View that implements scrolling the display content left or right.
